Extend security docs (#14740)
galaxyproject/galaxy: doc/source/admin/security.md

### Protect Galaxy against data loss due to misbehaving tools

Tools have access to the paths of input and output data sets which are stored in

> ``file_path``. If tools use reference data stored in data tables also data in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``file_path``. If tools use reference data stored in data tables, they have access also to data in
```

``tool_data_path`` and ``shed_tool_data_path`` (plus data referred in hand

> crafted data tables and refgenie configuration). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
crafted loc files and refgenie configuration). 
```

There are three approaches to protect Galaxy against these risks:

> - Use different credentials for running tools and make ``file_path``, ``tool_data_path`` writable only by the user running Galaxy. This can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that generally applies, and on the surface the better solution is to use `outputs_to_working_directory` with a container destination, in which case those directories are mounted ro within jobs.

Author: Still I think that this is worth documenting for instances that can not use containers. Maybe we should switch the order and highlight the best solution.

> - Use different credentials for running tools and make ``file_path``, ``tool_data_path`` writable only by the user running Galaxy. This can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``.
> - Configure Galaxy to run jobs in a container and enable ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Then the tool will execute in an environment that allows write access only for the job working dir. All other paths will be accessible read only. 
> - Use [Pulsar](https://pulsar.readthedocs.io/) to stage inputs and outputs.

Author: ```suggestion
- Configure Galaxy to run jobs in a container and enable ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Then the tool will execute in an environment that allows write access only for the job working dir. All other paths will be accessible read only. 
- Use [Pulsar](https://pulsar.readthedocs.io/) to stage inputs and outputs.
- If containers or pulsar are not an option the following strategy is suggested. Use different credentials for running tools which can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Furthermore (in particular) ``file_path``, ``tool_data_path`` should be made writable only by the user running Galaxy. 
```

Like so, @mvdbeek ?

There are three approaches to protect Galaxy against these risks:

- Configure Galaxy to run jobs in a container and enable ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Then the tool will execute in an environment that allows write access only for the job working dir. All other paths will be accessible read only. 
- Use [Pulsar](https://pulsar.readthedocs.io/) to stage inputs and outputs.

> - If containers and Pulsar are not an option, it is possible to use different credentials for running tools. This can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Furthermore, check that files in directories like ``file_path`` and ``tool_data_path`` are writable only by the user running Galaxy. 

Reviewer 2: I don't think it implies `outputs_to_working_directory`, you still need to set this as a separate option, or have we changed this recently ?

Author: You are right. I formulated this wrong.

> - If containers and Pulsar are not an option, it is possible to use different credentials for running tools. This can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Furthermore, check that files in directories like ``file_path`` and ``tool_data_path`` are writable only by the user running Galaxy. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If containers and Pulsar are not an option, it is possible to use different credentials for running tools. This can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that you also need to enable ``outputs_to_working_directory`` when enabling ``real_system_username``. Furthermore, check that files in directories like ``file_path`` and ``tool_data_path`` are writable only by the user running Galaxy. 
```

> - If containers or pulsar are not an option the following strategy is suggested. Use different credentials for running tools which can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Furthermore (in particular) ``file_path``, ``tool_data_path`` should be made writable only by the user running Galaxy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If containers and Pulsar are not an option, it is possible to use different credentials for running tools. This can be configured using the ``real_system_username`` config variable. Note that this implies ``outputs_to_working_directory``. Furthermore, check that files in directories like ``file_path`` and ``tool_data_path`` are writable only by the user running Galaxy. 
```
